ACADEMIC PROGRESSION RULES
Data Science and Business Analytics Department, UGBS

MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA TO PROGRESS
Students must maintain a cumulative GPA of at least 1.50 to be allowed to progress to the next
academic year without restriction. A student whose cumulative GPA falls below 1.50 at the end
of any academic year is placed on academic probation.

ACADEMIC PROBATION
A student on academic probation must meet with their assigned academic advisor before the
start of the next semester to agree an improvement plan. A student on probation for two
consecutive years may be required to withdraw from the programme, subject to Faculty Board
review.

FAILED CORE COURSES
A core course must be passed with a grade of D or better to count toward progression. A student
who fails a core course must retake that course the next time it is offered. A student cannot
proceed to a course for which the failed course is a prerequisite until the failed course has
been passed.

Example: a student who fails OMIS 204 (Database Management Systems) cannot enrol in OMIS 308
(Enterprise Resource Planning Systems) or OMIS 320 (Cloud Computing for Business) until OMIS 204
has been retaken and passed.

RETAKE POLICY
A core course may be retaken a maximum of two times. A student who fails a core course a third
time will be referred to the Head of Department for academic counselling and an individualized
progression plan.

CREDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR GRADUATION
A minimum of 128 credit hours must be completed across all four years to be eligible for
graduation, including all core courses and the Year 4 Capstone Project (OMIS 410). Students
who are more than 8 credit hours behind their expected cumulative total for their year are
considered at risk of delayed graduation and should consult their advisor.

DEFERMENT AND WITHDRAWAL
A student wishing to defer a semester or withdraw from the programme must submit a formal
request to the Dean of Academic Affairs, copied to their departmental advisor, at least two
weeks before the start of the semester in question except in documented emergency cases.
